---
layout: index
image: myface2.png
---
## About me
I'm a postdoctoral researcher at Wageningen University and Research's Economic Research Institute, Agricultural Economics Chair. My work focuses on complex socioeconomic systems, with a focus on human capital investment (read education) of young people. I use diverse econometric, algorithmic and experimental methods to analyse how young people interact with themselves, systems and technology, and the economic implications of such actions. During my doctoral sutdies, I was especially interested in the confluence of students' peer networks, technological innovations and non-cognitive skills, and the study of these in resource-scarce settings, i.e. Low and Middle-Income Countries. Some of the experimental work that I do happens in Mexico, my home country. Recently, I completed a visiting research at Stanford University's Impact Lab on [Equitable Access to Education](https://impact.stanford.edu/organization/equitable-access-education) (2024), under the supervision of Prof. Irene Lo. The amazing work done by the lab on improving lottery-based school choice for K-12 students in the SFUSD is still underway, and I can only reccomend you watch Irene's presentation on it. 

I am involved in the [Equity and Access in Algorithms, Mechanisms and Optimization](https://www.eaamo.org/) community. I formerly co-organised the Latin America and Caribbean working group, and participated in the Development Group. Currently, I am an advisor to the EJUCIAM working group (Equidad y Justicia en Comunidades Indígenas de las Américas). Under the umbrella of EAAMO, and alongside my colleagues Francisco Marmolejo, Tilsa Oré, Rubén Martínez, and Imelda Flores, we co-founded and organise the "Summer of Science". The programme is a mentoring project for indigenous women from diverse cultures who wish to pursue scientific research with a focus on community impact. This initiative is in partnership with the REDNACECYT (Red Nacional de Consejos y Organismos Estatales de Ciencia y Tecnología) in Mexico, and is set up as a two-month hybrid programme. Please visit the ["Summer of Science"](https://www.md4sg.com/workinggroups/projects/rednacecyt) programme webpage to learn more about the partnership, organisers, and student cohorts! 👩🏽‍🏫 

I obtained my PhD in Economics from the United Nations University - MERIT, and Maastricht University in The Netherlands. Prior to my doctoral studies, I completed a BA in International Relations (2008-2013) at Mexico's Tec de Monterrey, Campus Guadalajara, with a specialisation in Political Science from Sciences Po Rennes, in France. I also hold a Master of Public Policy, with a Policy Analysis and Economic Development concentration from the Hertie School of Governance  in Berlin (2013-2015). I have also done consulting work for the World Bank Group (2016-2018) and the International Labour Organisation (2019), and Maastricht University (2023-2024).

[Download CV](/pdfs/cv.pdf){: .btn .btn-outline-secondary .btn-center}

I enjoy discussing and learning about Causal Inference Econometrics, Machine Learning and Prediction for Social Good, Social Network Analysis, and Social and Economic Development (Education, Health, Labour, Tax, Gender).
